Help on module run:

NAME
    run

FILE
    /local/home/user03/branch/run.py

FUNCTIONS
    ani_of_genomes_and_novelty_prediction(parser)
        The fourth step is to calculate the average nucleotide identity.
        To lessen the calculation burden, only genomes of sequences within the same cluster as an unpublished genome (marker gene) are compared.
        In case only SILVA sequences are in a cluster, no comparison can be done.
        The tool Mummer is used for the genome comparison, specifically nucmer.
        Novelty predictions are made only for genomes with ani's better than 96%
        ani > 96% -> same species
        ani > 98% -> same strain
        input:
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes and data of the previous step, the output table path will be used as input.
        - working directory which contains the mothur formatted file with the clusters (mothur_otu.txt)
        - file containing a list of fasta file paths, the genomes that someone wants to cluster.
        - file containing a list of reference fasta file paths.
        output:
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes, with columns added that contain ani based tax prediction, rank and novelty prediction
    
    classification_of_genomes_and_novelty_prediction(parser)
        As the third step, the unpublished genomes are classified based on the clusters they are found in.
        Since clusters were made in 0.01 distance steps, the classification can be done using the smallest clusters first, using bigger ones if a classification can not be made.
        If a marker gene of an unpublished genome is found in a cluster together with references, a common taxon that 90% of sequences agree with will be the predicted taxon.
        The 90% is arbitrary choosen and is required because of taxonomic inconsitencies.
        When a specific rank is checked for agreement, sequences with unknown classification on that rank are ignored.
        TODO: check for taxonomic consitency on higher ranks for those!
        Novelty prediction is based on the predicted taxon's rank. a high rank (phylum, order, class) with low distance can be a strong indicator for taxonomic inconsitencies.
        But it could also be caused by sequences that are not fully classified, yet.
        input:
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes that are to be classified
        - working directory where the results will be saved and which contains the mothur formatted file with the clusters
        output:
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes, with columns added that contain cluster based tax prediction, rank and novelty prediction
    
    gene_alignment_and_clustering(parser)
        The second step is to align 16S sequences and clustering them.
        All is done using "mothur".
        The alignment requires a high quality reference alignment (e.g. from SILVA) and
        is done using the "gotoh" algorithm. (needleman, and blast are possible alternatives, but not implemented here)
        Also using "mothur", empty or uninformative columns are removed.
        When calculating distances (similar to DNADist) multi nucleotide gaps will be counted as one and gaps at the end are ignored.
        The clustering will be done based on the distance between the sequences using the "Furthest neighbor" algorithm.
        Mothur outputs cluster in steps up to a cutoff. The size of the steps can be choosen, by default 0.01 steps.
        input:
        - fasta formatted reference alignment (e.g. from SILVA)
        - a threshold (between 0 and 1), that will be used for the clustering. 0.03 is default.
        - working directory where the results will be saved and which contains the fasta formatted file with the extracted marker genes of all genomes
        - the number of processors that are available for paralell processing. The program "mothur" can use several cores for the alignments and distance calculations.
        output:
        - a mothur formatted file containing the clusters, from unique up to the given threshold
    
    marker_gene_extraction(parser)
        The first step is to find and extract 16S marker gene sequences. The sequences are found using "hmmsearch" and extracted based on the given positions.
        Two hmmer can currently be used. HMMER3.0 with a profile from 2010 and "rnammer" using HMMER2.0 with a profile from 2006.
        A third one using HMMER3.0 is still to be evaluated.
        So far it seems like rnammer provides better(more) results, but is also very slow.
        input:
        - file containing a list of fasta file paths, for example the genomes that someone wants to cluster.
        - file containing a list of reference fasta file paths or alternatively, a fasta formated file containing the already extracted marker genes of the reference genomes.
        - working directory where the results will be saved (intermediate files will be worked on in the designated /tmp folder)
        - the number of processors that are available for paralell processing. The program "parallel" is used to process several genomes at the same time.
        output:
        - fasta formatted file containing the extracted marker genes of all genomes
    
    my_main()
        16S marker genes extraction, clustering, classification and novelty prediction
        
        NAME run.py
        
        FILE  install_path/run.py
        
        DESCRIPTION
        Script for extracting 16S rRNA sequences from a set of genomes (new ones and reference genomes),
        clustering of 16S sequences by first doing a multiple alignment, and then calulation the distance.
        If the marker genes of the unpublished genomes clustered with one or more of the reference genomes, a taxonomic id is assign to them.
        Finally the ani is calculated for those unpublished genomes, that got clustered with reference genomes.
        
        The three stages in short:
        1. Extraction of 16S sequences
        2. Creation of a mulitple alignment of 16S sequences, distance matrix calculation and clustering
        3. Classification of genomes based on clustering and novelty prediction.
        4. ANI calculation and novelty prediction.
        
        input:
        - file containing a list of fasta file paths, for example the genomes that someone wants to cluster.
        - file containing a list of reference fasta file paths. (Step3) alternatively , a fasta formated file containing the already extracted marker genes of the reference genomes.
        - a threshold (between 0 and 1), that will be used for the clustering. 0.03 is default.
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes that are to be classified
        - working directory where results of each stage will be saved
        - the number of processors that are available for paralell processing.
        output:
        - meta data table with a list of the genomes, with columns added that contain tax predictions, average nucleotide identity and novelty predictions
        
        TODO
        - Evaluate third HMMER option
        - confusion matrix of different cutoffs
        - have all logfiles in the working directory
    
DATA
    __author__ = 'hofmann'

AUTHOR
    hofmann


